PR for SRVLOGIC-209: Add the "Openshift Serverless Logic overview" assembly. (#75129)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-logic-overview-timeouts.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * about/serverless-logic-overview.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="serverless-logic-overview-timeouts_{context}"]
= Timeouts

Openshift Serverless Logic defines several timeouts configurations that you can use to configure maximum times for the workflow execution in different scenarios. You can configure how long a workflow can wait for an event to arrive when it is in a given state, or even, the maximum execution time for the workflow.

> Regardless of where it is defined, a timeout must be configured as an amount of time (a duration), which is considered to start when the referred workflow element becomes active. Timeouts use the `ISO 8601 data and time standard` to specify a duration of time and follow the format `PnDTnHnMn.nS` with days considered to be exactly 24 hours. For instance, `PT15M` configures 15 minutes, and `P2DT3H4M` defines 2 days, 3 hours and 4 minutes.

Author: Noted!

If the Event state is a workflow starting state, incoming events may trigger workflow instances. In this case, if the `exclusive` property is set to `true`, the `eventTimeout` property should be ignored.

If the `exclusive` property is set to false, in this case, the defined `eventTimeout` represents the time between arrival of specified events.

For example, consider the following:

[source,json]
----
{
"states": [
{
    "name": "ExampleEventState",
    "type": "event",
    "exclusive": false,
    "timeouts": {
      "eventTimeout": "PT2M"
    }
    "onEvents": [
        {
            "eventRefs": [
                "ExampleEvent1",
                "ExampleEvent2"
            ],
            "actions": [
              ...
            ]
        }
    ],
    "end": {
        "terminate": true
    }
}
]
}
----

> The first `eventTimeout` would start once any of the referenced events are consumed. If the second event does not occur within the defined eventTimeout, no workflow instance should be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first `eventTimeout` starts after any of the referenced events are consumed. If the second event does not occur within the defined eventTimeout, no workflow instance is created.
```

====

[id="workflow-timeout_{context}"]
== Workflow timeout

To configure the maximum amount of time that a workflow can be running before being canceled, you can use the workflow timeouts. Once canceled, the workflow is considered to be finished, and is not accessible through a GET request anymore. Therefore, it behaves as if the interrupt was `true` by default.

Workflow timeouts are defined with the top-level `timeouts` property. It can have two types, `string` and `object`. The `string` type defines an URI that points to a JSON or YAML file containing the workflow timeout definitions. The `object` type, is used to define the timeout definitions inline. 

For example, to cancel the workflow after an hour of execution, use the following configuration:

.Example of workflow timeout
[source,json]
----
  {
  "id": "workflow_timeouts",
  "version": "1.0",
  "name": "Workflow Timeouts",
  "description": "Simple workflow to show the workflowExecTimeout working",
  "start": "PrintStartMessage",
  "timeouts": {
    "workflowExecTimeout": "PT1H"
  } ...
}
----

[id="event-timeout_{context}"]
== Event timeout

> When you define a state in a workflow, you can use the `timeouts` property to configure the maximum time to complete this state. When that time is overdue, the state is considered timed-out, and the engine continues the execution from this state. The execution flow depends on the state type. For example, a transition to a next state might be executed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: :point_up_2: this we can remove to simplify

> 

Reviewer 2: In the original document https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/core/timeouts-support.html#callback-state

Inside the section 

[id="event-timeout_{context}"]
== Event timeout

We had the following subsections to make the distinction between states more clear.

**Callback state timeout**
**Switch state timeout**
**Event state timeout**

It looks like this sub-sections has gone now, and the separation between the "three sub-sections" is a bit difficult to follow"

Author: Technically I can not go beyond level 3. Let's see I have added that in the content.

Event-based states can use the sub-property `eventTimeout` to configure the maximum time to wait for an event to arrive. This is the only property that is supported in the current implementation.

> The Event state `timeouts` property can be used to specify state specific timeout settings. For the Event state, it can contain the `eventTimeout` property which is defined using the `ISO 8601` data and time format. For example, you can specify `PT15M` to represent 15 minutes or `P2DT3H4M` to represent 2 days, 3 hours, and 4 minutes. The `eventTimeout` values should always be represented as durations and not as specific time intervals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

If the Event state is a workflow starting state, incoming events might trigger workflow instances. In this case, if the `exclusive` property is set to `true`, the `eventTimeout` property is ignored.

If the `exclusive` property is set to false, in this case, the defined `eventTimeout` represents the time between arrival of specified events.

For example, consider the following example:

> .Example for the event timeout

Reviewer 2: this particular example here, we remove

> [source,json]

Reviewer 2: all this [source,json] content we remove

----
{
"states": [
{
    "name": "ExampleEventState",
    "type": "event",
    "exclusive": false,
    "timeouts": {
      "eventTimeout": "PT2M"
    }
    "onEvents": [
        {
            "eventRefs": [
                "ExampleEvent1",
                "ExampleEvent2"
            ],
            "actions": [
              ...
            ]
        }
    ],
    "end": {
        "terminate": true
    }
}
]
}
----

> The first `eventTimeout` starts after any of the referenced events are consumed. If the second event does not occur within the defined eventTimeout, no workflow instance should be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Event timeouts supports callback state timeout, switch state timeout, and event state timeout.

> The `Callback` state can be used when you must execute an action in general to call an external service, and wait for an asynchronous response in the form of an event.

Reviewer 2: The callback state is also a sub-section in the document.
I think we are missing here something like this:

[id="callback-state-timeout_{context}"]
== Callback state timeout

Author: Event timeouts support callback state timeout, switch state timeout, and event state timeout. So I have added all the information about them under the Event state. I can not go beyond this level. 
![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/43639538/1b228580-39c1-464e-a060-17e00baece0c)

Reviewer 2: OK, the cuts in the content I suggested still apply

> The `Callback` state can be used when you must execute an action in general to call an external service, and wait for an asynchronous response in the form of an event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Callback` state can be used when you must execute an action in general to call an external service, and wait for an asynchronous response in the form of an event.

Once the response event is consumed, the workflow continues the execution, in general moving to the next state defined in the transition property.

Since the Callback state halts the execution until the event is consumed, you can configure an eventTimeout for it, and in case the event does not arrive in the configured time duration, the workflow continues the execution moving to the next state defined in the transition.
```

.Example of Callback state with timeout
[source,json]
----
{
 "name": "CallbackState",
 "type": "callback",
 "action": {
   "name": "callbackAction",
   "functionRef": {
     "refName": "callbackFunction",
     "arguments": {
       "input": "${\"callback-state-timeouts: \" + $WORKFLOW.instanceId + \" has executed the callbackFunction.\"}"
     }
   }
 },
 "eventRef": "callbackEvent",
 "transition": "CheckEventArrival",
 "onErrors": [
   {
     "errorRef": "callbackError",
     "transition": "FinalizeWithError"
   }
 ],
 "timeouts": {
   "eventTimeout": "PT30S"
 }
}
----

> You can use the `Switch` state when you need to take an action depending on certain conditions. These conditions can be based on the workflow data, `dataConditions`, or on events, `eventConditions`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the `Switch` state when you need to take an action depending on certain conditions. These conditions can be based on the workflow data, `dataConditions`, or on events, `eventConditions`.

When you use the `eventConditions`, the workflow execution waits to make a decision until any of the configured events arrives and matches a condition. In this situation, you can configure an event timeout, that controls the maximum time to wait for an event to match the conditions.

If this time expires, the workflow moves to the state defined in the `defaultCondition` property.

```

.Example of Switch state with timeout
[source,json]
----
{
    "name": "ChooseOnEvent",
    "type": "switch",
    "eventConditions": [
    {
        "eventRef": "visaApprovedEvent",
        "transition": "ApprovedVisa"
    },
    {
        "eventRef": "visaDeniedEvent",
        "transition": "DeniedVisa"
    }
    ],
        "defaultCondition": {
        "transition": "HandleNoVisaDecision"
    },
        "timeouts": {
        "eventTimeout": "PT5S"
    }
}
----

> The `Event` state is used to wait for one or more events to be received by the workflow, execute a set of actions, and then continue the execution. If the Event state is a starting state, a new workflow instance is created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Event` state is used to wait for one or more events to be received by the workflow, execute a set of actions, and then continue the execution. If the Event state is a starting state, a new workflow instance is created.

The timeouts property is used for this state to configure the maximum time the workflow should wait for the configured events to arrive.

If this time is exceeded and the events are not received, the workflow moves to the state defined in the transition property or ends the workflow instance (in case of an end state), without performing any actions.

```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * about/serverless-logic-overview.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="serverless-logic-overview-timeouts_{context}"]
= Timeouts in Serverless Logic

> Serverless Logic defines several timeouts configurations that you can use to configure maximum times for the workflow execution in different scenarios. You can configure how long a workflow can wait for an event to arrive when it is in a given state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Serverless Logic defines several timeouts configurations that you can use to configure maximum times for the workflow execution in different scenarios. You can configure how long a workflow can wait for an event to arrive when it is in a given state, or even, the maximum execution time for the workflow.
```

Author: Added

> Regardless of its workflow or state, the timeouts must be configured as an amount of time (a duration), which is considered to start when the referred scope becomes active. Timeouts use the `ISO 8601 data and time standard` to specify a duration of time and follow the format `PnDTnHnMn.nS` with days considered to be exactly 24 hours. For instance, `PT15M` configures 15 minutes, and `P2DT3H4M` defines 2 days, 3 hours and 4 minutes.

Author: Done

NOTE: Month based timeouts like `P2M` (period of two months) are not valid since the month duration might vary. In that case you can use `PT60D` instead.

== Workflow timeout

> To configure the maximum amount of time a workflow can be running before being canceled, you can use the workflow timeout. Once canceled, the workflow is considered to be finished, and will not be accessible through a GET request anymore. So it behaves as if the interrupt was `true` by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the maximum amount of time a workflow can be running before being canceled, you can use the workflow timeouts. Once canceled, the workflow is considered to be finished, and will not be accessible through a GET request anymore. So it behaves as if the interrupt was `true` by default.
```

Author: Added

  "start": "PrintStartMessage",
  "timeouts": {
    "workflowExecTimeout": "PT1H"
  } ...
}
----

== Event timeout

When you define a state in a workflow, you can use the `timeouts` property to configure the maximum time to complete this state. When that time is overdue, the state is considered timed-out, and the engine continues the execution from this state. The execution flow depends on the state type, for instance, a transition to a next state might be executed. 

Event-based states can use the sub-property `eventTimeout` to configure the maximum time to wait for an event to arrive. This is the only property that is supported in current implementation.

Event timeouts supports callback state timeout, switch state timeout, and event state timeout. 

The Event state `timeouts` property can be used to specify state specific timeout settings. For event state it can contain the `eventTimeout` property which is defined using the `ISO 8601` data and time format. You can specify for example `PT15M` to represent 15 minutes or `P2DT3H4M` to represent 2 days, 3 hours and 4 minutes. The `eventTimeout` values should always be represented as durations and not as specific time intervals.

> 

Reviewer 2: **Callback sate timeout** was removed. But must go, as we have in community, because it's also a state based on events.

Reviewer 2: And the same for the **Switch state timeouts.**

Author: Added the examples
